Let us see heap memory is access using pointers.
Heap Memory is access a dynamically means the memory is allocated dynamically the size of
the memory required in the heap.
is  decided at run time not at compile time.
So mostly when we  want to locate memory in heap we allocate arrays, not just one integer or one
float or one character we will have array of characters,
Characters, array of floats, or array of integers so it takes arrays
So let us see the difference when the  memory is allocated in stack and when the memory is allocated in heap
so I will write down the syntax here.
Integer A[5] and  I will also assign some elements that is 1 2 3 4 5.
So this is an array if I write this in our main program.
If I am writing this in main function then this array will be created inside stack.
A inside the stack.
So when you declare a array like this it will be created in stock.
Then how it is created in heap, so far that I have to declare integer star P
This is one line, I can write it in next line.
P assign
Let us finish should this line when you declare a pointer P then this P is also created inside the
stack.
Then next if I said P assign new int of size of five.
Then Newman's the memories I look at it from he.
So I will get in heap,  so where I got I don't know.
So just I'm drawing at some random place inside the heap and the address of this array is stored in P.
So this P will be having the address of this one. so when you declare an array like this
It will be created in stack. when you take a pointer and whenever you say new, the array will be created
in heap.
And when you said new then you need to take that address in a pointer.
So that's what we are taking in a point.
And you have a pointer.
So that's it.
New means  memory is allocated in heap and just declare an array, it is created in the stack. if you
see integer star P again in the stack.
So what are the variables you declare inside the program.
let's say the main function, whatever the variable should declare int, int.
i have declared two variables all the variables they will get the memory inside the stack.
Then when you get a memory in heap, this  side, new new,when  you said new you're going to get the memory
in heap and that address should be kept in some adresss variable, that's all, in C++ programs if you're
declaring array like this then this is in stock and if you are creating an array like this then
this is in heap.
The same thing can also be written in a single line.
I will re write the same thing again that is Star P assign new int of size 5.
This is created in heap so you can write it like this.
Also. now one more difference between stack memory and the heap memory is that,
See this array when it is created inside stack, automatically.
Then it will automatically get deleted and it is going out of the scope but heap memory will not be
getting deleted automatically.
It will be there as well as your program is running so if you don't want it through the program you wanted
for limited time then you should also dealocte it, heap memory must be dealocated, this is a very important
thing, as you are saying new for allocation then after some time if you do need it then you should say
delete P, but the P is an array as you have created.
Then you should write on this subscript symbol.
Delete P, if it it is not be deleted like this beforehand.
Only if I say P assign  null
Let us see what happens, if I said this thing, without saying P, after delete  I can say, P
assigned null means pointer P is not pointing in any where I can say this one.
This is okay but I should not do this at all.
with out this is being deleted.
If I say P assign null
Then pointer  will not be pointing this memory the memory is still there inside heap as long as program is
running. so assume that you have a big program somewhere.
Not in main functions, some where in other function you allocated and function has stop but program is
running that memory will be as it is.
So you must dealocate when you're not using it.
Otherwise if you're not deleting it then it is called as memory leak problem, means
This memory belongs to a program and suppose the pointer is not pointing onto that one.
assume that if removed, pointer is  not pointing on that one, then it is a memory leak that memory
is of no use.
There is no pointer and it is not also free.
now one thing if a pointer is not pointing any where then we say a pointer as null.
...
It's a null pointer.
Not have to show more things.
Just let us see.
Now.
Let us talk about accessibility.
If I have this array then I can say A of two assign 15.
So what happens A of 2 at this place  0 1 2 at this place  15 will be written so I can assign some value there.
or I can evem read that value, write
The value I can do anything with this array by using its index, can I access
This array also.
Yes you can access with the help of P.
How I can say that P[2]  assign 15.
So this is 0 1 2 3 4 so this place is 15 will be written, so you can access p[2] as if it's an array.
Yes.
this is a array name.
Just like array name you can access it.
So that is the benefits.
Once you have a pointer to array inside  heap you can access it with the help of pointer and the pointer
can be treated as a name.
on anarray.  we will write down the sample code and show you how this works.